<!-- badges: start -->

[![tic](https://github.com/ropenscilabs/circle/workflows/tic/badge.svg?branch=master)](https://github.com/ropenscilabs/circle/actions)
[![CircleCI](https://img.shields.io/circleci/build/gh/ropenscilabs/circle/master?label=Linux&logo=circle&logoColor=green&style=flat-square)](https://circleci.com/gh/ropenscilabs/circle)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/ropenscilabs/circle/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/ropenscilabs/circle)
[![Lifecycle:
maturing](https://img.shields.io/badge/lifecycle-maturing-blue.svg)](https://www.tidyverse.org/lifecycle/#maturing)

<!-- badges: end -->

# circle

R client package for the Circle CI REST API

This package aims to execute tasks such as build restarts, log queries
or setting environment variables for the CI service provider [Circlei
CI](https://circleci.com/) from within R. It also simplifies the setup
process for build deployments via `use_circle_deploy()`.

{circle} does not come with an option to setup Circle CI YAML files.
Please see the related [{tic}](https://github.com/ropensci/tic) package
for such functionality.

## API versions

All functionality uses the Circle CI [API
v2](https://github.com/CircleCI-Public/api-preview-docs) which follows
the **pipelines** -&gt; **workflows** -&gt; **jobs** approach. This API
version is still in beta and might undergo some changes in the near
future.

Some functions can also be used via API versions v1.1 and v1 via the
`api_version` argument. However, this will only work if the respective
endpoints are available for both API versions. Usually, there should be
no need in practice to fall back to API version &lt; 2.

If you want to get more information, have a look at the [document
explaining changes between v1.1 and
v2](https://github.com/CircleCI-Public/api-preview-docs/blob/master/docs/api-changes.md#endpoints-likely-being-removed-in-api-v2-still-available-in-v11-for-now).

## Installation

Development Version:

```r
remotes::install_github("ropenscilabs/circle")
```

## Get Started

See the [Getting
Started](https://ropenscilabs.github.io/circle/articles/circle.html)
vignette for an introduction.

## Note to developers

This packages relies on using API keys to test its functionality. Please
have a look at section [“Testing the
package”](https://github.com/ropenscilabs/circle/blob/master/.github/CONTRIBUTING.md#testing-the-package)
for more information.

# Acknowledgments

This package was inspired by the work of [Thomas J.
Leeper](https://github.com/leeper) on the (discontinued)
[cloudyr/circleci](https://github.com/cloudyr/circleci) package and by
the [ropenscilabs/travis](https://github.com/ropenscilabs/travis)
package.

[![rOpenSci footer](http://ropensci.org/public_images/github_footer.png)](https://ropensci.org)
